There are several reasons why a framework like Next.js can be beneficial in an enterprise context compared to using plain React:

1. Server-side rendering: Next.js provides server-side rendering (SSR) out of the box, which can significantly improve the initial load time and SEO of your web application. With SSR, the server renders the HTML content of your page and sends it to the client, which can then display the page immediately, even before the JavaScript is fully loaded. This can provide a better user experience and is particularly important for content-heavy applications or those with high SEO requirements.

2. Automatic code splitting: Next.js automatically splits your code into smaller, more manageable chunks, which can be loaded on-demand as the user navigates through your application. This can help reduce the initial load time of your application, particularly for larger applications.

3. Static site generation: Next.js also supports static site generation, which can be useful for sites with mostly static content. This approach generates HTML files for each page of your application during the build process, which can be served directly to the user without any server-side processing. This can be particularly useful for high-traffic sites, as it can reduce the load on your servers.

4. Built-in routing: Next.js provides a built-in routing system that simplifies the creation of complex application routes, including dynamic routes. This can save development time and improve the maintainability of your application.

5. Community and ecosystem: Next.js has a large and active community, which has created many plugins, tools, and libraries that can extend its functionality. This can save development time and provide solutions for common problems.

Overall, while it is possible to build web applications with plain React, using a framework like Next.js can provide many benefits, particularly for enterprise-level applications that have high requirements for performance, SEO, and maintainability.


npx next dev -H 172.22.42.13:3000